Hello everyone, welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter, and today I'm here with the legendary Nina
Hartley. Uh, SHE'S, I, I mean, if you don't
know it, come on. When, when have you been
born? In like 10 years ago, 5 years ago.
If you don't, if you don't watch adult movies,
you might not have any idea who I am.
Uh,
YEAH, but you're, if you're a child of the
80s, the 90s, even the 2000s, come on. Uh
SO, uh, but, but anyway, for people who have
lived under a rock and don't know Nina, she's
basically a legendary pornographic film actress and sex educator.
And she's also a feminist and advocate for sexual
freedom. We're going to talk about all of that
today, so, Nina, welcome to the show. It's an
absolute honor to everyone.
Thank you so much. I love any opportunity to
talk about the bigger picture besides actual sexual activity
because as you know, uh, sex. TAKES place in
a cultural context. It takes place in a situation,
and the sex that we get to have, we
want to have, we think we should be having,
is very heavily influenced by media, by culture, by
our gender, our family, religion. And all the things.
So it, uh, I'm a nurse as well. Uh,
SO, for me, sexual health is part of health,
right? And so, it's very important to talk about
this in a bigger context. So, thank you.
Of course we're going to talk about all of
that, but let me start. I mean, because come
on, I'm a big, big fan, so I also
have to take this opportunity to ask you a
little bit at least about the foreign industry
because no, no question off limits, all, all on
the table.
OK, so tell us first. A little bit about
your story. I mean, how did you get into
pornography in the 80s? And I know that you
started, and please correct me if I'm wrong here,
but I think you started as a dancer stripper
in 1982 and then you got into the industry
in 191984. Is that correct?
So my, my journey to porn was actually a
very long one. I knew very early on when
I was a middle teenager, I was in the
1970s, right? So I grew up in Berkeley, California.
My family was very politically active, progressive. Uh MY
father had been blacklisted as a communist. So I
grew up with very, um, uh, Forward-thinking ideas about
uh class, certainly, and education, but they were of
their generation and sex was never talked about, you
know, good or bad, it's not. Nothing. Um, BUT
I discovered words when I was 1314, bisexual, um,
exhibitionist, voyeur, and I recognized that, 00, that, that
pertained to my desires. So I knew early on,
I wasn't like other people. I never dreamt of
him. I never dreamt of my wedding day. I
would dream of, and before I, I'd ever seen
a naked person besides myself, I would dream of
rooms full of naked people. So for me, I,
uh, I knew I wasn't like other people. I,
I never wanted to be married. I never wanted
to be a mother, although I like children very
much. I just knew I didn't have it in
me to be a good mother. And uh that
I found written pornography, uh, and when I was,
oh my gosh, 1415. Loved it right away. I
saw Playboy magazine. I loved the Pretty ladies. And
in the 70s, of course, the whole conversation around
sex was exploding, right? We had in this country,
we had finally legalized abortion. Women could get credit
in their own names, you can get birth control
without being married, you can get birth control without
your husband's permission. Right, this is only 50 years
ago. It's not that long ago how backwards things
were. Yeah,
but back then it was like mind blowing,
mind blowing, and, and people rushed to the doors
and they rushed to the exits, right? And so,
uh, I loved reading pornography and I read the,
you know, all the things from the 8th, 19th
century, you know, autobiography of a flea, um, yeah,
just classic stuff you can find it anywhere. And,
uh, I snuck into my first adult movie when
I was 17. And I, it was a virgin.
I had barely kissed a boy. And the first
time I saw people having sex on screen, it's
like, That's what I wanted to do. I just,
just fully formed him. I, I knew, I knew,
I knew. That that was what I
wanted to. OK, but wait a 2nd, 17, so
that would fall into the barely legal.
I was not, he did not card me. I
was not supposed to be in the theater. He
was not supposed to let me in, but he
did not care. He did not care. Barely Legal
is 18 years old and one day. So in
the, in the term barely legal, it's very important.
The term barely legal, the important term is legal.
Which means 18 in America means 18 years old.
Barely means you, you know, you're, you're still 18.
So barely legal is the year of 18 to
19 years old. Um, SO, so at 17 you're
not barely legal. You're, you're almost legal, but again
this is 1976. They didn't
care. No, no one cared back then.
No, certainly the guy, not the guy in the,
in the, in the ticket counter and not the
six guys in the theater who fled in terror
to the edges of the seating because a single
female had come in to their inner sanctum and
they just did not know what to do about
that. So I had a very early interest in
sex. I had a very early interest in What
we now call polyamory or non-ethical, non-monogamy. I didn't
understand monogamy. I, I, I don't understand it. I
know people are. I know it, so it's culturally
very heavily favored. So
people, so it's not just that you are not.
To, uh, monogamy, you don't even understand it, is
that it?
I, I don't understand it personally. I understand it.
So in when I was younger, I knew everything,
you know, I, I was convinced that monogamy, enforced
monogamy was not natural. And now I'm older, more
experienced, and I know that most people don't want
to be monogamous. They want to appear monogamous, for,
so it's what people think. But I do know
truly now that some people are monogamous when they
love somebody, they don't want anybody else. It's not
a struggle to be faithful. That's just who they
are. So I do know for a substantial percentage
of the population, monogamy is their natural, their natural
way to be, and I don't have a problem
with that. And then everybody else struggles with it
because when you decide or discover that you are
not normal, meaning heterosexual and monogamous, then you have
a lot of Trouble come your way. So I
just, I, I knew from the very beginning that
I wasn't like other people. I could not have
a life like other people. Um, AND I always
tell people, if, you know, if the, if the,
if the plug had not gone into sex, the
plug could have gone into primatology. I was going
to be a midwife. I could be studying 40
years, I'm working 40 years as a midwife. I
could have I've been a linguist. I was interested
in ceramics, fabrics, glass blowing. So I'm, I'm interested
in a lot of things, um, but sex was
the thing that tied it all together. It
ties together. I'm, I'm in primatology. You could have
been the next Jane Goodall,
exactly, who was a personal hero of mine. I,
I really appreciate her. So I was designed to
study one thing my whole life. As it turns
out, sex is the thing because, of course, sex
involves. The body, culture, relationships, expression, philosophy, um, uh,
so it encompasses everything. So it is, so every
sex is both universal. Everybody has some of it
and completely personal. So, while there's a universal sex
idea, everyone experiences it as a personal thing, and
how they experience it depends on race, class, culture,
religion, all the things. So, um, everyone experiences it
differently. Some people, for many people, it's traumatic. It
is painful. It is sad. It is, makes them
angry. Um, THE idea of sex, when I think
of sex, it's supposed to make you at least,
mm. And most people don't get that. When they
think sex, they are very anxious, angry, sad, upset,
uh, frustrated, uh, victimized, and, and, and, and, and
I'm even talking about people, I'm not even talking
about, uh, uh, non-consensual behavior. We're talking about just
most people have a very difficult relationship to sex,
and it does not bring them peace and joy.
It brings them anxiety and confusion. So
let me just ask you about that. Where do
you think that stems from? I mean, you've been
er alive for more than 60 years now and
you've been in the business since the early 80s.
Um, WHERE do you think that er attitude towards
sex from, I mean, mostly conservative people stems from?
Oh, religion. So, every culture in every world, every
culture that we know of has rules around sexuality.
Who gets to have it? When do they get
to have it? Why are they having it? And
so it's, so, when I say, you know, we
should be free sexually, it doesn't mean free for
all, it doesn't mean I get to Because it's,
there's what I get to do sexually, then I
get to, of course, have consent, right? I cannot,
I cannot take my clothes off in public because
other people have not consented to see me naked.
So I don't get to be free that way.
I don't get to be free with your body
if you don't say, yes, please be free with
my body. So, the, uh, in the way, I
don't know enough about other cultures. I'm going to
talk about Western culture because that is my history,
and I'm not a, I'm not an anthropologist. I'm
not a sociologist, but the, um, the Deep fear
and misogyny and fear of women and fear of
sexuality goes back thousands of years. The Greeks had
it, the Romans had it. Um, AND what it
comes from in the very short history is it
comes from the need of the state to control
and the fear that men have of women. I
think it goes back to fear of the fact
that women are their children. Um, AND that women
have capacity that men don't have to, to create
life. And that, I think that terrifies men going
back many, many centuries, millennia, and they have to,
they have to, uh, have a tight, tight control
of it. Many, many philosophers have talked about this,
um, in the 20th century, of course, um, Uh,
Simone, uh, de Beauvoir was the biggest one, and
Germaine Greer, but in modern era, right now, living
right now, there are two amazing, Writers and philosophers
who are talking about this. The most famous one
is called Kate Mann, M A N N E,
and her book Down Girl, The Logic of Misogyny,
she just, she, she just ties it up in
a bow. And also, uh Manon Garcia wrote two
amazing books. One is called We Are Not Born
Submissive, and the other is The Joy of Consent.
So if anyone wants to know more, why the
question, why, why these three books, The Joy of
Consent. We Are Not Born Submissive by Manon Garcia
and Down Girl by Kate Mann. I can't say
it any better than these books have said it,
um,
and, and you know what, I've read those books.
I'm not surprised. So you, you understand, they're brilliant.
They're brilliant books, and the fact that Manon Garcia
is English is not her first language. Wow, she's.
Wow, just crazy.
And you know what, I also have another book
here that you would probably love. Uh, SEX, yes,
pleasure and agency for everyone.
Oh yes, uh, please send that to me. Send
me the title again, uh email later. So, yeah,
yeah, um, but there is, uh, there's lots of
scholarship about, uh, the, the embedding into the law,
um, uh, and common law of a deep mistrust
of female agency, female independence, female sexuality. Um, AND
it, it, many, many books, books as tall tall
as me have been written about this very thing.
So it's an amazing scholarship. So since I'm not,
I'm not a scholarship.
Yeah, let me just ask you because we're also,
we're already getting into feminism and it just crossed
my mind that you were there during the sexual
revolution, right?
I wasn't having sex, uh, but, um, I was
there, so I saw a lot of the, my,
my mother and her sister were, um, also, you
know, I, I was raised in the, in the,
in the environment. Right, of, of, uh, female empowerment.
And, and so I understood that I, I did
believe that I had a choice of what to
do. I had a choice to either become a
mother. No one pressured me to have kids. My
parents didn't care. Um, SO, I was fortunate that
I did not have a lot of the indoctrination
that many women get, uh, about, you know, you
must be a mother. Why aren't you married? Where's
my grandchild? I never got any of that. So,
um, I'm the only, my, my aunt was gay,
and I have some gay cousins, but in my
immediate family, I'm the only one who is queer.
Everyone else is very conventional married kids, you know.
Um, AND they don't understand what I do, um,
but I wanted to ask you, I wanted to
ask you specifically about the sexual revolution because nowadays
there are some people that have, uh, distorted what
the sexual revolution actually was about, and they say
that, oh my God. The sexual revolution turned people
into degenerates and the sexual revolution ruined marriage, and
the sexual revolution, the feminists are the cause behind
falling, uh, fertility rates and all of that. I
mean, is it really about those kinds of things?
I do not believe that that is the case.
So, again, the people who, the people who are
saying that feminism caused these things are also people
who are very much, men and women both, uh,
support the old ways tradition, where you could beat
your wife, where you could rape your children, where
you, uh, you could beat your wife and rape
your children and rape your wife. I mean, marital
rape wasn't outlawed in America till the early 90s.
Mhm. So the
idea, yeah, yeah, that, that's, that's mind blowing
that women that, and then now that's a big
movement in America, you know, take to, uh, I
think they're rage baiting, but who, who truly believe
that women should not have the right to vote
with a terrible idea, um, they should all, all
that. So I, I don't want to give them
any more credence. They're very dangerous. They have a
lot of influence and power right now, and it's,
and it's been. Uh It's been a long time
building. So when we got rid of Richard Nixon
and we got out of Vietnam, our side, the
left, the, the left decided to party and the
right said, oh yeah. OK. And 50 years later,
here we are. So they, they took the long
view. So that's, there's a lot to be, I'm
not, I'm not, again, I'm not a political scientist,
but there's a lot to be said about that.
And they're, they own most of the industry, they're
trying to consolidate media, they're trying to break down
the education system and all the things because The
powers that be need ignorant people to vote for
them, which we saw, and vote against their best
interests, which we saw. So they say it ruined
it because then they don't get to have the
little candy. These are people who are still mad
that slavery is over, OK. So there's a small
group of men, mostly pale, who liked it when
the world was theirs. The world was built for
them, and they don't want to have to think
about the causes of the consequences of their actions.
They don't want to think about their heart. They
don't want to think about it. And so, anytime
they're forced to confront the truth of what they
have begat, they get really upset. So, you know,
they're trying to take away no-fault divorce. Um, SO
women are forced to stay with abusive, all the
things. I don't want to get it, it's a
whole other conversation. So, female sexual freedom is very,
very scary because, then, because one statistic that we
need to talk about. Who lives longest, Married men,
single women. Who lives shortest, single men, married women.
What does that say? And so, the traditional home
depends on the tremendous emotional labor of females. To,
and there's a whole, there's a whole, um, uh,
new term now, mental load, and how modern husbands
have to understand that the mental load the wife
carries is, you know, he, you're not marrying your
mother, you're marrying a partner. So the, the millennials
and younger, um, are, are more aware of this.
Traditional fact because they're being raised by women who
are now in their 40s and 50s who are
themselves feminists. So I, for some of the younger
men, not the Trump guys, but the other younger
men who are, you know, involved fathers who are
caring partners, I do feel hope with them because
they, they, they all realize patriarchy hurts everybody, patriarchy
hurts men. As well. I've been saying this for
40 years. The patriarchy is bad for men because
most men are not in power. They're never going
to be in power. They're not going to accrue
that kind of wealth. Um, THE people in power
have been accruing wealth for hundreds of years and,
and, and placed in hedging their bets and, and
stacking the system. And so patriarchy keeps men amputated
from their feelings. It keeps women amputated from their
sexuality, and then says, go make friends, go find
somebody to love you. But we are raised big
groups to be antagonistic towards each other. Men only
want one thing. Women are like this. And so
we're too busy fighting each other to see the
people on top, and it's an age-old tactic. It's
been going on for thousands of years. So it's
just hypercharged in this culture. So I do not
think that feminism ruined relationships or that feminism ruined
marriage. I think what ruinined traditional marriage is real
people realizing, oh my gosh, you're being abused too.
It's not just me because again, abuse happens in
isolation, right? They cut you off, and so it's
just, and they tell you things like, well, you
know, I love, I love you. Anybody else knew
the real you, they wouldn't love you, but I
love you. And because I love you, I get
to treat you badly. It, it's quite sick. There's
lots written about it. I'm not going to go
into psychology. So no, I do not think feminism
ruined anything.
Oh, OK. So let me just take a step
back because I was asking you at the beginning
about your, uh, I mean, your path toward, uh,
pornography, but, uh, I, uh, before we go back
to feminism, let me just ask you a few
questions here because I, I'm very curious about these
kinds of things, the, the. In Formations that happened
uh in the porn industry for the past four
decades, basically. So, uh when you look back uh
to the 80s, the 90s, the 2000s, the 2010s,
and now the 2020s, um what would you say
are the biggest changes that you see across those
four decades in the porn industry?
Well, certainly, um, uh, internet. So the switch from
the switch from analog to digital media. Um, ON
the positive side, it enables the individual performer to
make direct contact with the consumer and get more
of the money. On the downside, um, revenge porn,
certainly, um, and the fact that People think sex
work is easy, um, uh, the nicheification of, of
images, um, and what I don't like, of course,
in the in the digital age is the ability
for people to access images with no context. So
in the analog years, until the individual person, absent
abuse situation, the individual person did not look for
pornography until they were told by their body that
it's time. You know, I'm, I'm interested in, in
naked adult people, right? Because you're of a certain
age. You had to go out of the house
and go find it. It was mysterious. It was
dangerous. It was scary. It was exciting. It was
all the things, but you still rarely had it
thrust upon you on Knowingly or thrust upon you
without your consent.
I mean, unless you found your father's magazine
collection that you were looking, that means you were
looking, right? It's not like someone, you know, so,
so what happens, what worries, so up until the
digital age, I would say pornography is a mirror
to culture. So the culture gets the pornography it
deserves, which for the most part, because of our
culture is still. With very few exceptions, quite racist,
quite sexist, quite ageist, quite ablest, quite all, all
the things. And so, it is a media product
born out of our twisted sex, uh, erotophobia, racist
and sexist culture. So, the images made to titillate
and excite you are going to be pulled on
that with The internet with with the digitization of
everything now, in the old days, if you had
a thing that you like, you might have to
look at 5 or 6 or 8 movies to
find one scene of that thing. That you like.
And now there's a whole 2 hour compilation of
just that thing. And it doesn't matter how crazy
the thing is, balloons, splashing, toes. Tickling, there's going
to be massive amounts of material just for you.
So now pornography has been siloed, right? Used used
to be more broad. Used to be a movie,
had a little bit of everything in it, right?
You were in a 5 scene movie. You had,
you know, a little kinky, a little vanilla, a
little cheating, a little voyeurism, you know, and now
it's just one movie of just a thing. So,
the access to the images has the, the bar
to entry, both as a consumer and a provider
has lowered considerably. I don't know if that is
all good. As a, as a, as a pro-creator,
as a provider of images, um, I do it,
if a provider has a good work ethic and
understands the wheels and the, and the, and the
mechanism, you can make a living. Selling images just
to people who want to see you, so you
don't have to deal with the bigger porn system
because in the analog days, if the director, if
the owner of a company didn't want to have
sex with you, you didn't get hired. Um, AND
not that you had to have sex with someone
to get hired, but if he didn't find you,
you know, effable, he wasn't going to hire you.
Now, You, no matter what you look like, can
go find the people who think that you're sexy.
That's not terrible. And especially if you're queer and
trying to make community over being, um, uh, on
the spectrum, uh, sexually queer, kinky, it is easier
to find more like you and make community that
way. So that's a Benefit. The, the downside, of
course, again is, you know, revenge porn and the
fact that there's no There's little ways to effectively
keep people who don't know what they're looking at
finding it. I'm not in favor of the age
verification technology that we're using because those are absolutely
designed to be, uh, to, to chill and to
chill, uh, Demand. They want, they want to shut
down demand. So if they can make you feel
bad for looking at adult material, um, then they
can shame you and make you frightened enough to,
to back off. So, I don't know enough about
that to have a deep opinion. I don't, it's
not coming from a good place. Protect the children.
Protect the children. Um, THERE'S a great book. Um,
THERE'S a wonderful book by Judith Levine called Harmful
to Minors, The Dangers of Protecting Children from Sex.
So Judith Levine, Harmful to Minors, great book, and
it is So, on the one hand, um, the
conservative side wants to protect children, but of course,
we know with all the scandals, they are the
ones harming children. The the pastors and the parents
and the foster parents are the ones harming children,
um, under the guise of, you know, God wants
this for you. So, the hypocrisy and the blindness
of the anti-sexual side is very It's heartbreaking. It
is enraging. It is dangerous, um, and it has
consequences going on for generations. Um, AND I But
what I do see, what makes me happy is
I see a lot of, um, younger people under
30 who are escaping family cults and escaping high
pressure religions and talking about it. This one young
woman online who says, you know, who's basically saying,
send me your, send me your unhinged experiences with
youth pastors or in youth, youth group. It's, it's
just astonishing, you know, Jeffrey Epstein has nothing on
this behavior. So, We know the power of sexuality,
and we know the power of bodily autonomy. We
know what it means to, to be able to
say what happens to my body and what I
do with it, who gets to have access to
it and who does not get to have access
to it.
Oh, OK, so, can I, can I mention, uh,
three things that I think happened or I saw
happening? I mean, I did. DIDN'T experience them directly
because I, I was born in 1990, so I
wasn't there in the 1980s, but anyway, uh three
big changes that I saw happening in the porn
industry that I think are very positive. So the
first one. You mentioned ageism. I think that in
the late 2000s, particularly with the rise of the
MILF category,
started in 2000, I remember.
Oh, in 2000, OK, but with the rise of
that category, uh, I think that ageism really got,
uh, I, I, I mean, it got less popular.
I mean, because until the 190s, OK, I'll
give that to you. I have something to say
about that. OK, so what
else? OK, OK, OK, OK. And then in terms
of racism, I've noticed of course that and at
least in the 80s and 90s, probably also in
the early 2000s or until the mid 2000s, it
was, I mean, I don't think there were even
interracial sex scenes
in my first one was interracial. They've always had
interracial sex scenes, but now, so interracial always means
African American man, pale woman. It never means pale
man. Darker skinned female, always, always, so the interracial
boom is absolutely 100% directly tied to white supremacy
and chattel slavery here in the United States. The
direct, direct line, direct line, um, and it's become
quite fetishized. So again, race is fetishized. They're not,
they're not just a guy, they're a big black
guy. It, it, it's. So, and, and then, of
course, and then, um, and racism toward black females
up until the mid-nineties, there was one famous black
performer at a time, female, only one. Um, AND,
and it wasn't until the mid-nineties, um, I can't
remember his name, uh, who started the urban, the,
you know, urban cheerleaders scene that where we had
multiple black women who were shown in a movie.
But again, almost all the time, all caricatures, right?
Um, AND, uh, that's why Shawn Michaels is so
important at the time in the 1980s. He will
not play a thug. He would not play a
gangster. He would not put on an orange jumpsuit
and pretend to be a prisoner. He always He
was played a smooth character, so he would push
him back and he lost work because of it.
So don't forget, uh, up until still now, most
company owners are white. So even if they're hiring
black performers, the black performers are performing an idea
of masculinity, idea of, of, of racial sexual superiority,
and, and you see it in the, in the
marketing, right, that, you know, the men are always
Massively endowed. Yes, that's part of the cartoon. So
the most important thing to remember about pornography as
a media product, it is best to think of
it as a live action cartoon, a mix of
WWE wrestling, documentary, uh, sporting events, live entertainment, um,
uh, bad dinner theater, uh, and it, it's an
idea of sex based on the directors. Notion who
has probably been fucked up by the system, etc.
ETC. So, oh, OK,
that's a very good point, but then you were
going to say something about the mill,
oh yeah, so um. So I think MILF is
the most popular category and then followed by teen,
right? So the extremes, right? So in porn, it's
all about the extremes, bigger, smaller, darker, lighter, younger,
older, so you hardly, so pornography is not for
the Documentation of, of intimacy, rep reciprocity, equality, um,
respect. It's about it's performative, it's sex strictly as
a performance because most people watching it are masturbating
and they're in their family, they don't want to
hear a lesson about intimacy that's gonna ruin my
heart on. Because arousal, sexual arousal is very self-focused,
it's very selfish. I want what I want. I
want what I, I want this. I want this.
And in that moment when they're hyper aroused, they
don't want to think of anything else. There is
uh an old saying, I don't know it in
Yiddish, a man with an erection is in no
need of advice. And the second one, an erection
has no conscience, because when a person is in
the very height of sexual engagement, their focus narrows.
And they're not here to think about the big
picture. They want their, they want their gratification in
that moment. So it's very important before you get
to that moment that you've set up the situation
for gratification in an ethical, legal, moral, and, uh,
uh, mutual way. We can play around with, you
know, inequality and dominance and submission, but before we
go there, before we start the game, we have
to make sure the playground is safe. We're picking
the right people who understand what's going to happen
and all the things, and that doesn't happen enough
because our culture, sex should just happen. It should
just happen. And it was beautiful. And we just
fell into each other's arms. And that works once
or twice. But then once the, once the person
becomes a real person to you, then, then people
don't know what to do. So, I don't want
to plan for sex. It takes all the romance
out of it. Then you never have sex again,
because when you wait for both, both people to
be around at the same time, It just doesn't
happen and you add kids and work and it's
never gonna happen. So, we have a very backward
view of intimacy in our culture, I believe, and
based and, and, and it's not that women are
unaffected by sexism. Women are also very affected by
sexism. Um, Kate Mann talks about the, the fact,
oh, there's other great book, um, called Slut Shaming,
Whorephobia, and the Unfinished Sexual Revolution. Um, AND it's
about the, about the good girl privilege. So, yes,
men slut shame, but women slut shame just as
much because if I'm seen as a slut, then
the culture says bad things can happen to me.
If I'm a slut, I don't deserve respect. If
I see you as a slut, I don't have
to respect you. I don't have to respect your
boundaries. I don't have to respect your wishes because
you're a slut, therefore, you're worthless. I can just
take what I want from you. And so if
I'm a good girl. Girl girls get privilegeg. Girl
girls get protection. They get taken to the, to
the party. And so I have to distance myself
from a bad girl so that I don't get
tainted instead of seeing that it's putting me in
a cage as well. Um, SO I'll, I'll send
you these titles, so when you post the interview,
you can have the, the suggested reading list, um,
there for you. Um, THERE'S so much written about
this. It's not, it's not just coming out of
my head. So the mill thing. Uh, IT was
about 2000. I don't know the movie American Pie,
and that's where the term first came in.
Yes, yeah, it was in 1999, I think. OK,
so, so MILF, so that was the year I
turned 41, um. And people are saying, Nina, why,
why, why is this with all things? So, a
couple of things. First, um, the original porn youths
were aging out, they're getting married and having kids.
So first, in, at a home for couples who
watch pornography together, the wife controls what movies come
into the house. Secondly, a lot of these guys
were parents and they're realizing, ew. That, that actresses
might, oh, so they themselves rightfully got sort of
disgusted at the idea of masturbating to somebody who
was the age of their own child, that just
made them weird. And thirdly, young men. So, um,
the idea of the young man being educated by
the older woman, so don't forget, the older woman
is going to have done the emotional labor. She
does the emotional labor for you. She's going to
make it all right for you. She's going to
tell you what she needs cause the 21 year
old girl doesn't know what she She wants yet.
She's going to guide you because a 21 year
old boy doesn't know what to do yet. She's
going to make it OK for you because she's
going to be caring and kind, and she just
wants you for your sexual prowess. She doesn't need
you for a relationship or baby. She just wants
you for sex, which is a male fantasy. I
just want to be a sex object, right? And
for women, they're trained to be, I just wanna
be a love object, right? And so, the, the
joke is, you know, the, the, you know, women
give sex to get love and men give love
to get sex, and then they get angry that
they lied to each other. Because in our culture,
again, if I can't be horny, I'm horny, you're
cute, let's do it. I have to convince you
or tell myself that I love him and he
loves me, and that takes the love, takes the
taint of horny away. So, she's taught, and also
she, women are taught to be the, the, the,
the gatekeepers of male behavior. So men are taught
to go get, get, try, try, try. We're supposed
to, no, no, no, if we give in too
quickly, we're a slut. If we don't give them
at all, we're approved. That's again, another long discussion
many people have written about this. But in the
moment, so if I'm horny and I, and I
need to convince you, convince myself that it's OK
to sleep with you, I have to believe you
love me and you're horny, you're gonna tell me
you love me because you want to get laid.
The, the best song on this ever is by
the artist Meat Loaf called Paradise by the Dashboard
Light. Came out in 1980. Anyway, it's the song
says it all. It's in a nutshell, and it
is the reason for so many bad marriages because
you have that time because you don't know about
birth control or alternative ways of getting off that
avoid pregnancy. I can't, I can't imagine how many
millions of marriages were forced because, and the baby
came at 8 months after the wedding. Um, AND,
uh, and how many people that were thrust together
for their whole life who had no business being
together because of one mistake, because she couldn't be
sexual, he could not bring a, all the things,
all the things. So, it ripples out through the
whole culture when we deny women their sexual autonomy
and we deny men their emotional intelligence.
Right. So, let me ask you then, uh, I
mean, there's those aspects of the porn industry that
we have to keep in mind and also the
fact, of course, that it's basically a fantasy. It's
not how people usually have sex in real life,
but I, I, uh, how about sex education because
you're, you're also Into sex education and of course
back in 2006, you released your book Nina Hartley's
Guide to Total Sex and you also have a
film series on it which uh which is uh,
I have to tell you as um an adolescent
I appreciate it a lot.
Thank you, that's why I made them. I made
them because So sex is many layers. There's the
physical behavior. What is it called? Where is it
located? How does it work? Just, just like, like,
a car, a car engine. But there's the social
aspect, the emotional aspect, the intrapersonal aspect, how well
do I know myself, how emotionally regulated I am,
interpersonal. Can I talk to people? Can I hear
them? Can we negotiate? So, all these skills take,
and then there's what I believe about sex. So,
there's 5 main aspects about sex that Develop at
different times. So I knew very young the the
mechanics. I had 00 ability to actually. Discuss and
talk about it. So, for me, porn, going into
porn was a way to get the sex I
wanted without having to be in a relationship, without
having to pretend that I wanted to see you
again, without having to be alone in a room
with a man after dark who might be drunk
or high. So, for me, pornography was the safest
way to have the most amount of sex with
the least amount of bullshit. And I have been
correct in that matter. Um, I've had the most
amount of sex, the least amount of bullshit. For
me, the bullshit about sex was all in my
personal life, um, with partners who were Not the
best for me, right? So keeping, so sex education
is very important, um, because if I don't know
anything, I can be manipulated. I can be lied
to, I can be coerced more easily. Like, I
don't know my rights. Um, A friend of mine
said the reason they don't want, uh, the reason
the right wing does not want to teach sex
education in schools is because kids would then know
they're being abused. So if I keep you ignorant,
this is the way that it is. This is
what daddies do to their, whatever people are told.
And, but if I, if you have education, then
you can have more autonomy, you can have more
self, um, agency and say things like, yes and
no, not like this. I'd like it like that,
and just yourself have a better relationship to your
body and to other people. Um, AND also,
so that that's how it links to feminism as
well,
of course, of course, um, you cannot be fem
you cannot be infected feminist if you're kept ignorant,
if, if only you know is what you're. Um,
AND, and what happens, of course, a lot of
when these women who believed all of this, and
they get married at 1718, and have 5 or
6 kids, and then the husband leaves them, they're
now 40 years old with 4 kids and no
job and no skills and no education, because they
barely got out of high school because they were
supposed to be a wife and mother. He was
supposed to take care of me. And so I'm
going to be a good wife and mother and
devote myself to my family. And then he gets
to go and leave. Because he can, and, and
if her, if his kids, and, uh, there's gonna
be thousands of those women and thousands of those
families in America alone who realize I'm 40-something years
old, I have no savings, I have no education.
I have no, I have no job skills. I
was a mother all these years and now I'm
working in, at a greeter at a, a, a
big box store. So, and all because, all because
we won't educate our girls. So, it's very annoying.
So, but feminism is for everybody. It doesn't mean
women are better than men. It means that everyone
should get an equal chance. And for me, feminism
is also about people being able to do the
job they're best for. I think about my, my
father and his parents. Um, IN a perfect world,
His mother would have gone to work with her
father because she was very strong, outgoing, good in
business, but it was the early 1900s, no way.
So his poor sweet country father had to go
to work with his father-in-law. He had no aptitude.
My father's father should have been able to stay
home and run the house, and his mother, after
burying the children, should have been able to go
out into the world with her father. Temperamentally, it
would have been a better suit, a better fit.
My father would have had a happy childhood and
life would have been different. So think of all
of the people crammed into the wrong box because
of what's between their legs and what the culture
says that means for you. And you never get
a chance to question it. You don't get a
chance to learn another way of being, and it's
very painful, and it causes, you know, a lot
of problems. It causes, I'm sure, lots of addictions
and, and all kinds of things. It's just because
people People have to express the pain of isolation
and the pain of loneliness somehow. Some people take
it out on themselves through addiction and depression. Some
people take it out on others through violence and
murder, but it must express itself somehow.
Oh, OK, but then what is sex positive feminism?
What does it mean to be sex positive?
So I don't know if there's an official definition,
but for me, sex positive, um, starts with the
notion that sexuality is a either God-given or nature-given
fact of life. We are, most humans are sexual
beings, um, very, I think very few, vanishingly few
percentage of the population are what we call asexual,
just not done it. So, and they should get
to go to, they should go live in monasteries
and, and do what they do, right? Um, SO,
it starts with the idea that everyone, um, is
an autonomous being who has a right to, um,
have the intimate and erotic life that, that works
best for them, um, that does not, uh, hurt,
that sex, you do not use sex to hurt
yourself or to harm other people or take advantage
of other people, that, uh, we use it to
promote, um, Peace and calmness within ourselves, and intimacy
and connection with other people, um, and that just
recognizing it is a, it is a It's really
important. Sex is how we get the next generation.
We have to have it, right? We have, we
have, to have sexual intercourse. That is how most
people are created and we need it for people,
right? But what the, um, antis don't like to
understand is that for some reason, now, whether you
believe so, either, I, again, I do not believe
in the God of the Bible. I do believe
in evolution. For some reason, God or nature, Made
sexual, the capacity for erotic pleasure really important, or
we would not have, we would not mate all
year round. People say, oh, you have sex, you
like animals, not really. If we're like animals, we
would have sex in You know, December, we'd have
sex in July to have babies in March. I
mean, we did do the math, but so we
would have sex, you know, we, we'd have seasons,
but humans are sexually receptive year-round. That's weird. Very
few animals, um, outside of humans. Humans, bonobos, dolphins.
Um, YOU know, mate year round. It's just not
at rats, rats and rodents, you know, rats and
mice will mate year round,
and some of those animals also have sex just
for fun, not for.
So, humans, humans have a lot, so humans have
a lot of sex just for fun because of
the nature, because of it in a healthy relationship.
Effective sexuality, not just scratches and itch, but also
brings me closer to my partner. We are creating,
we're creating love and affection and affinity between us
when it is mutual and beneficial and not forced.
So, the capacity, so sexual arousal is an altered
state of consciousness. It is, it, it connects us
to the divine. So before we had the idea
of God, don't, I, I believe God is a,
this means everything all at once. It's, it's a,
it's a paltry human attempt to put words on
the ineffable. Because the feeling of That's a real
human emotion and chimpanzees can have it too, just.
Gobsmacked, awestruck, struck dumb by beauty, and that's just
a very human emotion. And we can tap into
that through prayer, through meditation, through, um, fasting, through
spinning, dervishing, or directly through the Citation of our
erotosensory system to tap into the divine. Turns out
that something side note, so you've heard about chakras,
right? And, you know, there's a base chakra all
the way to the crown chakra. The spot in
the brain that processes the neurological information coming from
our phalluses. I coincides with the crown chakra. OK,
so sexual pleasure, sexual pleasure is a direct. Cultivated
sexual pleasure is a direct line to the feeling
of ineffability, of awe, of transcendence, of melting away
into the arms of your lover, of melting into
the bigger universe of things. So it is. The
capacity for awe and transcendence is a human thing.
Our brain is made for that. You can get
to it a whole bunch of ways. Psychedelic drugs,
all, you know, lose sleep for a while, you're
gonna start seeing things. Again, meditation, fasting, uh, spinning,
um, uh, trance dancing, and And, of course, erotic
stimulation, um, done with respect and, and intention. You
can absolutely take yourself into a whole other realm
and never leave the house. So, it is very,
very powerful. And conservatives hate sex and want to
control it because desire is chaotic and it is
anarchic. It, it crosses boundaries. We're, we're, we're taught,
OK, you're a, you're a man, right? And you
were taught, this is what men want. And so,
anything outside of this that you might want makes
you doubt yourself, makes you not trust yourself. Am
I a real man because I want this? Am
I a real woman because I don't want to
be a mother? Am I a real woman because
I want to have sex with a bunch of
people? And depending on how I was raised, I,
oh, what's so, what's wrong with me? I'm so,
I'm so damaged. Why do I want that versus
So for me as a sex-positive feminist, I believe
everyone has the right to have a fully autonomous
sexual expression of their life with people who also
want that thing. Everything,
yeah, you know, uh, you, you want, uh, do
you want to hear a funny one that I
heard from a conservative philosopher a few years ago.
I heard from him that Uh, men who perform
oral sex on women are less manly than men
who don't do it, basically, so. So I, I
mean, I
thought what, what is, what is manly? What is
manly about having a female partner who wants to
be intimate with you? What is unmanly about that?
So people, these are men who, of course, who
don't have sex and have unhappy women and wonder
where did the divorce come from. So if a
man, who we're getting very binary here, if a
man wants a woman to be sexual with him,
it is useful for him to make it fun.
And safe for her to be sexual with him.
He can, he can change his behavior, his attitude,
and his thinking in such a way that women
will want to be with him. But that, so,
so I heard it the other day and I
believed it, you know, so men who are saying,
you know, women just want, you know, six figures,
6 ft, 6 pack abs, it's like. That's not
true. It's objectively not true. But if you believe
that, then you don't have to work on yourself.
You don't have to look in the mirror. You
don't have to work on your horrible personality, your
stunted emotional growth, your limited intellectual, um, well, some
of these guys who think this are actually quite
educated, but they're not, um, they're, they're, the emotionally
very, very, uh, Uneducated, uneducated, emotionally ignorant, um, and
then they, and so, but when you act like
a victim, that's a very childish, that's a boy,
it's a boy thing. Man, this happened to me.
They're mean to me.
Yeah, and, and that's, that's a
little boy. So that, that's a little boy who
does not want to do the work to become
a mature man. He just wants to sit there
and, you know, those mean girls, they don't like
me. I don't like girls, those feminists made all
this. Sorry.
No, and as if rich men never get divorced
or rejected or have failed relationships,
right? And if it wasn't, if so many women
didn't get killed over it, it would be laughable.
But actually, and again, in America, I don't know
what happens in Europe, but in America there are
I tried the website about this, but just for
saying no, women have been killed, just for saying,
I don't want to give you my number. So
the impulse control, uh, you know, these so-called men
have the impulse control of a two year old
and have the, the The full rage enhancement of,
of, you know, again, as a young child, you
feel your emotions fully when you're very young, right?
You feel fully rage, fully joy, fully sad, fully
all the things. And as we are hopefully, you
know, um, cultivated correctly, we learn how to identify.
Manage and transform those emotions into. Better behavior and
more integrated. And these men have never learned that,
so they have the emotions of a 2 year
old and the body of a 30 or 40
or 50-year-old, and the strength. So if your 2
year old comes and hits you on the leg
and goes, you're a bad, bad, bad mom, you're
a bad daddy, but a 30-year-old man does that,
you die, all because you didn't want to sleep
with him. And Again, it's a bigger question than
I can answer here, um, but it doesn't mean
that the feminist movement was wrong. We needed it.
But again, women couldn't, can now get credit. Before,
you couldn't open it, you can't get credit without
your husband. You couldn't get birth control without your
husband. You couldn't get a bank account without your
husband 50 years ago, barely, it's very recent. And
so when one group is losing power, um, they,
it's called extinction birth, but they're trying very hard
to keep it. It's very terrifying because then. And
also their good time is about to end. They
get to be held accountable. They get to have,
they have to do the work. They can't expect
her to do all the household labor, all the
emotional labor, all the executive functioning labor, so they
can walk around and, and pretend to be a
big man. That is really It's terrifying, but they
can't admit to being scared because that's a sissy
emotion, so they have to be angry and outraged.
So again, it's just energy. It can come out.
Positively, it can come out negatively, it can come
out destructively, it has to express itself.
Oh, OK, but, but then let me ask you
this because you're well aware of this, that there
are some particularly radical feminists out there who are
against porn, against sex work more generally. And they
tend to have very unhealthy views of sex,
to say the very traditional patriarchal views of sex.
Women
don't what, what, what, what do, what do you
think about those,
um, I think that they are just as sex
negative as any, uh, preacher or any, any man.
Um, THEY, again, the book, um, uh, slut shaming
and whorephobia and the Unfinished Sexual Revolution by Meredith
Ralston talks about this extensively. It is. It is,
they have been indoctrinated with a Western Judeo-Christian idea
that, that, um, uh, men are bad and sex
is how they get over on women and that
women don't want it for their own sake, that
if women do want sex, it's because they're brainwashed
into pleasing men. I remember this in the, in
the 70s and early 80s, um, the idea that
they're, it's called bisexual erasure or bi erasure. So,
yeah, I understand. People can be gay, and some
people can be, but bi, they just haven't made
up their mind. They're just sitting on the fence.
They're just, and so a lot of, a lot
of the feminist rhetoric against bisexual women was that,
oh, you're just bi for the attention of men.
You're just kissing a girl for the attention of
men, and it's like, no, I like kissing girls.
And also, um, uh. That to objectify is to
wish and cause harm, right? I'm not, and so
for me, I've, when I was younger, it's like,
I objectified women because everyone outside of us is
an object. Now, I, I don't have to, I,
I don't know you. I'm going to look at
you and form an opinion. Now, when I speak
to you, I need to drop the objectification and
see you as a person and a human and
have that. But from across the room before I
met you, I don't know you, so you're tall,
you're cute, you're whatever. And so I knew right
away that their fundamental. Um, ASSUMPTION that to objectify
is to cause harm, is to wish harm was
fundamentally wrong. I did not wish to cause harm.
I wanted to make the pretty lady happy. I
wanted to give her pleasure and hopefully be in
the room and help. So I knew that their
idea that desire is harmful. WAS wrong. Now, how
we act on desire, of course, can be harmful
and is often unwanted and harmed, but the, the
energy itself, the fantasy is never wrong. There are
no wrong thoughts. There are wrong actions, and sometimes
the wrong action is believing this thought. Right? The
thought that she's mine or I get to have
this, or I must have this, or I don't
care. That's a thought you had, and you're then
acting on it in a way that is harmful.
So, the thoughts themselves are not harmful. Some of
them are not useful. So, if I have a
thought, and I hold it, and I just really
think, Oh, this is, this is a thought, this
is a thought, I am perhaps going down a,
a blind path that's going to hurt myself or
other people. Um, Buddhists talk about, you know, thoughts
come and go like clouds on a windy day,
or bubbles and popcorn. You think of popping corn.
Every popcorn is a thought pop, pop. So what
humans do is that that thought's real and that
thought's real, true, and that thought's true. Ignoring all
the other thoughts that also popped up, right? This
thought, and then we take this, and this is
my truth. I'm going to act on it, as
opposed to, wow, is this true? Is it a
good idea? Do I really want this? We don't,
we're not taught to question our desires. Except to
shame myself for them. I shouldn't want that. We
want what we want. We want what we want.
How bad, well, how we feel about what we
want, depends on how far apart what we want
is. From what we're taught. So if I'm normal.
And I just want a single partner of the
opposite gender. I don't ever have to question my
sexuality because I'm normal, but the further away one
is from what is normal, the more we have
to question, right? So, I was bisexual and all
the things. Like, is that OK to be bisexual?
It's OK to be exhibitionistic. For me, it was
OK to be exhibitionistic if I went to the
place where it was safe to be exhibitionistic. So,
for me, stripping was very feminist. It was the
place to go be naked for men to look
at you. Not on the street where something could
happen, in a theater where there's bouncers, and they
know they can't take you home, and they know
they can't touch you. They're there to watch, and
I'm there to show. So, for me, not a
club where people are drunk and going to, you
know, so let's, so let's say, I was full
of shame. About my exhibitionism. Oh, I can't have
this. I'm such a bad girl. Oh, my God.
So I'll go to a bar, I loosen up
with some drinks, and now I'm having a good
time. I'm so pretty. And then something bad happens
to me, right? Um, BECAUSE I'm drunk in public,
because I'm showing off in public to other drunk
people. And then I, oh, see, I knew it.
I knew I couldn't have that. I'm so bad.
Rather than, hmm, I like being naked. I don't
like drinking. A strip club for me, a strip
club was the place to go. Nothing bad ever
happened there. No guy ever got handy because they
knew that I'd had to, all a woman had
to do is raise her hand. He'd be kicked
out and never let back in again. They did,
they want to do that. They're gonna be very
good boys. I never had a guy act weird
in a strip club, ever, not one time. But,
but
you know, but you know something that I find
quite funny about these sex negative feminists is that
I mean feminism should be about treating, uh, women,
treating adult females as people that are capable of
making their own decisions, but. But but but but
if, but you can in their mind you can
never consciously choose to be a sex worker. I
mean you, you can only do it under coercion
and, and, and then the, the their, the morality
they have associated with. Sex, they try to impose
it on other women.
It's very Judeo-Christian, erotophobic, anti-female thinking. So the game
when you, when you start bending the horseshoe and
you get further, but eventually the extremes meet in
the middle because again, this is what I understand.
The sensation of extreme extremism. I really, really, really,
really, really believe this. That's an energy, right? Oh,
injustice. What we apply that to is cultural. So
before they became radical feminists, they were raised in
such a way that they're deeply distrustful of sex
and sexuality. Maybe they were hurt. I don't, that
didn't have to be that way. Um, MAYBE they're
closeted, you know, who knows, but they were raised
in such a way that they have a lot
of righteous anger and indignation. And I'm not saying
that some of the more radical anti-porn feminists don't
have a point about, uh, misogyny in the culture,
but the, the answer is not more. Um, AUTHORITARIANISM.
So authoritarians, no matter what ideology they espouse, are
coming from a place of I need control. I
don't like when things are not tidy. I want
everyone lined up. I don't like, I don't like
pink hair. I don't like, I, I need, I,
I need things to be clear. Now, the ideology
I pick. To organize what I want, that is
up for grabs depending on your culture and all
the things, but the feeling of, I really, really
need things to be a certain way. Um, OR
I'm against injustice. You're, right? So. And people in
that emotional state cannot listen to reason because you
cannot be reasoned with in that state. You cannot,
you cannot logic and emotion. You have to feel
an emotion, acknowledge it, validate it, and hope you
can work through it. Um, BUT in the heat
of the moment, in the heat of emotion, logic
is not going to work. In the heat of
sexual moment, in the heat of anger moment, in
the heat of righteous indignation moment, logic doesn't come
into play.
You know, I find it really funny and interesting
that there are people out there that are able
to live for decades and they're still not able
to process the idea, the thought that there are
other people out there with different values that might
include having different attitudes towards sex. Welcome
to my world,
yeah. But for me it's just mind blowing. I
mean, how is it, how is it that you
can live for, I don't know, 40 years, 50
years, 60 years, and not notice that.
The way we raise children, the way we. Conditioned
children, we start very, very early. We make them
very, very frightened of themselves. We, so a child,
a young child is completely at ease in their
body. You look at a 23 year old person
walking around outdoors without dying. He's, they're so happy.
They're just free. They have no shame. Shame is
given to us, and that is the original sin.
The original sin is not that Eve sought, um.
Uh, KNOWLEDGE, uh, although one feminist back in the
70s says Eve was framed, right? So Adam took
the bite because he was easily manipulated and then
put the blame on Eve. So, again, all this
is just stories made up years ago. So, the
Bible is not truth. The Bible is not literal
truth. Um, SO, but when you, for whatever reason,
you have insecure attachment, you, you just, you're just
not OK with yourself, and you're always, you're just,
you're not. You aren't good with yourself, partly because
of the way you're raised, attachment, abuse, mind fucking,
mind fuckery in the, you know, don't forget, uh,
especially, uh, in American culture and Puritan culture, the
job of education is not to educate the child,
it is to break the child's will, to make
it obedient. And when people have been broken to
be obedient, anybody, any sniff of disobedience is too
anxiety producing, they can't, they can't cope. And they
have to have things settled in. They have to
have things OK. And they don't care if it
steps on me because I'm the one making them
uncomfortable.
OK, so, uh, we have like 10 more minutes
maximum. Let, let me just tell you this one
anecdote from feminists here in Portugal, and then I
will ask you just one final question. I mean,
10 years ago or so, there was a group
of feminist. Here they have a website and they
wrote posts there and there was this one post
that I mean I almost died laughing because this
one feminist claimed or told other women. That they
shouldn't have sex with their male partners with the
lights on because they would be objectified. Oh my
God, I mean, what, what do you think about
that?
So they're, they're. From a purely logical point of
view, if objectification is evil to you, um, from
a purely logical point of view, yes, that makes
sense, but from a human point of view, it's,
it's laughable and ludicrous. Plus, all animals objectify. Any,
we could go back to Neanderthals, they had paint,
they had jewelry. As long as we know homonyms
and human and any kind of sapiens. They have
painted themselves with mud. They have do their hair.
Every animal identifies. Why do birds, why do rams
have big horns? Because chicks like it. Why do,
you know, peacocks have those big tails? Because women
like it. For most of the animal kingdom, um,
uh, um, the males display. And the females choose.
What do you think, Edna, that one? This one,
what do you think? So, the, the males are
out there bashing horns, flitting their tails, making a
bower, strutting, you know, just, you know, making it
and proving themselves fit for, for mating. Um, AND,
and the females sit around and, and, and pick.
Um, I would like to talk to a biologist
and find out how many, how many, um, animals.
Forcibly mate with females the way that we would
consider as rape, elephant seals, um, dolphins have been
known to, to gang up on a single female
and harass her. Um, BUT I don't know how
many other animals do that on the regular, right?
I'm,
I'm not
sure about if you don't know a biologist, please
put them in touch with me. I would love
to ask that question. Um, SO. And it is,
we objectify. I'm not going to walk across the
room to talk to you because your aura. I'm
gonna say, oh, I like the cut of his
jib. I like his smile. He seems funny. I'm
gonna go talk to him. So, to say, um,
and This is really very controversial, but years ago,
a woman, we were talking about this, you know,
objectification bad, and she, and she was someone who
didn't get pretty until after high school. She's very
plain, and she goes, what about the pain of
someone who wants to be objectified, who would like
a boy to notice her, but she wasn't considered
pretty enough. And then on top of everything else,
it's It's not very frustrating because, so it's one
thing to not, not, I don't want to fuck
you. I don't want to have sex with you.
But then for a lot of people, often men,
because I don't find you sexually attractive, that it
gives me permission to be mean to you. It
gives me permission to, to, to seek you out
and be mean to you as opposed to just
ignore you. What the fuck? As I saw it
the other day, if you're only, if you're only
pro-women to those you want to have sex with,
you're not pro-woman. And that was, like, very, um,
telling. So, it's, it's not everyone's going to be
attracted to everyone. Of course not. But why on
earth? Because you don't find me attractive, then you
feel you get to be mean and shit on
me and call me names and, or worse. Yeah.
And that being said, I would also, when I
was in New York, I never lived in New
York, so it wasn't all my life. But when
I would walk down the streets in New York
looking normal, not dressed up as Nina, and a
guy from a construction site would, you know, holler
at me and go, hey, thanks, and keep walking.
I never took it badly, you know, I'm just,
you know, he didn't, I didn't stop. I didn't
give him my number, but I didn't go, fuck
you. It's like, hey. So it's, it's very nuanced,
and it's very, and I have pretty privilege. I
know that. I'm a cis female. I am of
what's considered a good body shape. Um, uh, SO,
I, I recognize that a lot of the energy
I've gotten from men, certainly, and also as Nina,
because I'm a professional sex person, they're much more
respectful of me. They're terrified of me, right? If
I was just a regular pretty girl, as a
civilian pretty girl, I would, I might not feel
so protected, but Nina, they all, they, they all
want to be with me, so they're not gonna
be mean to me. No, they're gonna try to,
try to, You know, make me interested in them.
Um, SO, I think, hm. I think women should
date in pairs, you know, again, I, I didn't,
I got into porn, so I wouldn't have to
be alone with a strange man just to get
my sexual curiosity satisfied. Right? So, in, in pornography,
all we had to do, you show up at
work, I get to touch you. I get to
talk to you about sex. You get to talk
to me about sex. We get to decide what
are we doing? What do you hate? What do
you love? Got it. And I, I love the
clarity of that in our culture because slut shaming,
we can't be clear. I can't say, I'm horny,
you're cute. Let's go. 5 minutes, broom closet. What
do you say? And the scariest thing a woman
can do to a guy who's like, hey, baby,
he's like, OK, sure. Come on, let's go. They
think their brains smell. They don't understand. I'm gonna
bring my girlfriend too. Ready for two of us,
uh, uh, uh. Right? So, so they depend on
us being scared of them. They depend on us
being offended. It's like, yeah, of course you want
to fuck. Of course you want to be with
me. I'm cute, and my girlfriend's cute too. Let's
go. Uh, YOU know, so, um, dating in pairs,
dating and dating in numbers is, because I would
never be alone with a strange man after dark.
What? Because I know that's dangerous. And I don't
have, you know, I'm on the spectrum. So I
really did not. I did not have good, you
know, nuanced understanding. So, I like porn, very straight
and ji. You're my partner, blowjob, intercourse repositions, Kunne
Lingus, done. Got it. Let's go. And so, um,
I've done 2000 scenes. I've only regretted 5 of
them. Like, I should have called in sick that
day, like, uh. So, but, but for me, it's
very important, you know. Everything I do on camera,
I like doing at home anyway, plus things I
do at home that I don't put on camera.
So, I was never going against my, many people
who make pornography were raised in our culture and
are full of shame and, and, and, and have
issues around sex because they were taught much more
strictly than I was what it was for and
hell and sin and damnation. I never got any
hell sin, damnation. Gender-based teaching of any kind. It
was never boys this or girls this, nothing. So
I was left to discover myself. And it was
a great, a great blessing my parents offered me,
actually. I didn't like it for a number of
years because I was actually, you know, rather abandoned
and neglected, but because I'm queer, I was also
not indoctrinated by any, uh, deep cultural bullshit because
they thought they were doing me a solid by,
you know, making sure I went to church or
anything like that. So, I'm grateful that they did
not. Um, TAKE me to church. And I'm grateful
that they picked Buddhism as a religion because Buddhism
prohibits, um, proselytizing. So this, this is the 60s
and 70s in Berkeley, California. So, they could have
picked Scientology, they could have picked, uh, something called
ET earner seminar training. They could have picked Hare
Krishna, all of which were very, um, Indoctrinating, meaning,
you bring your kid into it. And they picked
Buddhism, which is anti that. So, of all the
religions my parents could have found to figure out
what the fuck in their life, I'm glad they
picked Zen because it was the, the, the best
of a bunch.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that for these sort
of sex negative feminists, if you objectify another person,
if you're attracted to another person's body, you should
be, Put on level one of Dante's Inferno and
just I mean, which, which is actually quite fun,
let me tell you, because it's like being in
a tornado with your loved one for all eternity,
so.
So yeah, so the, the anti-sex, uh, Christian religious
people, I don't agree, and the anti, the, the
anti-sex or sex negative feminists, I don't agree, because
they are philosophically and energetically, the, the, the anti-sex
Christians and the anti-sex feminists are very, are very
close because take away the words, so go, again,
before words, before ideology, there's energy. And so you,
you tape up their mouth and they can't spew
their hate. You can feel their deep discomfort, their
deep pain. They, they're in great amount of pain.
They are, they are isolated from themselves. They don't
know how to make connection with other people, and
they're, and, and it's painful. And so, again, which
ideology they choose to spew depends on the individual
person, but what is being expressed is a great
deal of pain and terror. Abs abject terror um
of Terror.
Oh, OK. So let me just ask you one
last question then because we've already talked about porn,
sex education, feminism. Let me try to, or let
me see if there's also a link here between
your attitudes towards sex and the fact that You
are a nurse as well and worked in healthcare.
I mean, do you think that sex should be
considered a part of healthcare?
Of course, absolutely, 100%. 1st, we start with um
always age appropriate sex education. Um, AND again, this
is what the right wing is trying to kill
and successfully killed. Um, America is the only industrialized
country that does not have a standardized teaching curriculum
for every class and every age. So in Japan,
a child goes from grade level 6 and moves
in the middle of the year to a different
school. He's gonna be able to step into the
class and know where he's at and what he's
doing cause level 6 learns this, level 7 learns
this, and in America, Um, every school district gets
to pick what it wants, and then even worse,
every school district is locally funded. So, in which
neighborhoods have better schools and better paid teachers. So
there's no, there's no federal standard for teacher pay.
There's no federal standard in America for curriculum, and
there's no standard for any kind of health education.
And even the ones that do offer it. Children
can be, can opt out if their parents think
it's not right. It's the parents' job to teach
a child about sex, but you're not doing it.
And that's you get all these pregnant 1314, 15
year olds, you know, um, the father may be
1314, or 15, or 1819, 20, the pastor. Don't
get me started. Um, SO, the hypocrisy, um, is,
is, is bright and shining. And they don't see
it because, again, it's too painful to, it's too
painful to confront. They're keeping, they're keeping the boogeymen
at bay, and they are ensuring generational trauma is
passed down, right? Um, uh, Which is how it
works, and there's wonderful work on generational trauma that
we can, you know, uh, and not just sex
abuse, but of course, racial abuse and religious abuse.
So it, it, it just, it, it lasts and
lasts and lasts. And now we've had 3000 years
of anti-female propaganda that is baked into every law,
every attitude, every religious text in the West, um,
a, a fundamental mistrust. Of, of women. Um, YOU
know, back in the day, if a man, a
man could accuse a woman of witchcraft if he
desired her because he was taught by his church
that desire is of the devil. So if I
feel desire for her, she must be of the
devil because she is tempting me. All the things.
I mean, I, I'm not saying anything new here.
Woman's virtue is man's greatest invention. I don't sound
like the the Oscar Wilde would say, but the
idea, so if women, if women are powerless, why
do they need to be controlled so much? No,
women are very powerful. And, um, again, and we
have what men want. We have, obviously, we have
Sex, we have, you know, female bodies, and we
also, of course, are the bearers of, of life.
Um, AND that just confounds a lot of men
and terrifies them. So they do need to control
us because it's the one thing they can't do
is make more, right? And in terms of, you
know, maintaining the population, we could, and I don't,
I don't recommend this. I'm not advocating for this,
but we could lose 70% of the male population
in the world and be fine. In terms of
enough men to keep populating and make sure no
one's marrying a cousin. So, if It is The
avenues to be considered a real man are just
changing so much, it's really scary to people who
are very rigid in their thinking, and extremists are
rigid in their thinking, whether they believe in leftist
ideology or right-wing ideology. Extremists are very They're very
controlled, and they can't, they'll break. They're, they're, they're,
they're rigid, they are brittle, and they're fragile. And
they're also very dangerous because they still hold most
of the levers of power in this country. And
most of the world, and we see it happening
all over, you know, our current president making You
live in Europe. I don't got to tell you
nothing about what's going on.
Uh, I mean, uh, you know, another thing that
you should try in America, social democracy. I mean,
it, it, it, it, it works here. You can,
you can, you, you can trust us, it works.
I mean, it's not like, it's not like, oh
my God, you will turn it in Venezuela or
North Korea. No,
no, I'm, I'm a democratic socialist. Some things should
be locally controlled, some things should be nationally controlled.
Um, BUT again, the, the particularly Puritan Calvinistic view
is that they are deserving and undeserving people. And
the idea that your more means my less, right?
They don't think the pie can get bigger. So
if you get more, I get less, and you
don't get no. And so again, that 2 year
old, mine, mine, this is mine. You don't get
to have any of it. No. But they make
policy. We have a bunch of 2 and 3
year olds running the country making policy, and it
is. It is heartbreaking and the, and the damage
being done, the damage, certainly damage of America's standing
worldwide is in the toilet, um, and was for
good reason, and then the damage, we saw 3
more years of this situation. And so the damage.
But he's just a figurehead. The powers behind our
president have been working for years and years and
years, so they want, they want to take over
energy, they want to take over education, they want
to take over healthcare, they want to take, they
want to take over all the, all the pillars
of the culture and mold it into their shape,
which is very retrograde, women in the house, all
the things. And But you can't do that with
350 million people who have 500 million guns between
them. So I don't know what's going to happen.
I have no, I have no crystal ball, um,
but I do know that it is serious. We're
in a serious situation. And so, but porn, man.
For me, it was a way to get my
message out there on somebody else's dime. So, if
I think about myself, um, Uh You know, I
look very straight, but I'm actually quite queer. So,
all my movies have a little, a little bit
of queer there all the, all the time, how
I treat women on camera. Um, BUT I also,
I'm a bit of 1/5 columnist. Um, CAUSE I
knew that images are very important. So, here's the
most, here's the most radical thing about pornography. It
is juvenile, American commercial pornography. It is juvenile, it
is shallow, it is sexist, it is racist, it
is stupid. But women don't die. So the fantasy,
male fantasy is she wants it, that's not a
bad thing. She, and then what happens in pornography,
she has amazing adventures, crazy experiences, lots of orgasms,
and lives. She lives. Every time in American media
up until the 1960s, if a woman transgressed, she
had to die, go crazy, lose her family, her
man, her child, her freedom. She had to be
punished somehow for crossing whatever line the movie she
crossed, right, sexual line, cultural line. Whatever. She had
to be punished, had to be, and now, in,
in porn, so if porn is male fantasy. So,
in porn is male fantasy, sex is easy. She
wants it, she's horny, and she lets you know
that she wants it. In real life, sex for
men is very difficult. You know, because we're not
told to tell you what we want because you'll
have your feelings hurt or be a slut, or
I can't, I can't admit that I want that
because what does that say about me. So, in
porn, all the bullshit is stripped away. She's horny,
you're here, let's go. And she doesn't die. For
all the, and there's plenty of porn that I
find visually and energetically unappealing and not nice. But
the vast majority, I'm gonna say 90% of the
porn out there is just silly, stupid fun where
she lives. Go figure, to have sex another day.
Get out of town. And it's actually quite radical.
Yeah. Well, look, uh, uh, anyway,
even we can do this again another time if
you ever want to do a part two, I'm
always down for this conversation. Oh,
OK, awesome. I was going to suggest that also
because after you read this book,
I can't wait.
I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm going to send you.
Uh, THE title and the author, and then we
will have to, to talk about this, but I
mean, just to say that I, even with all
the issues with the porn industry and all of
that, I'm very appreciative and have been for a
long while of your body of work, pun intended,
so, yeah. And so thank you so much for
coming on the show and uh oh and by
the way, please later send me the bibliography for
me to, I will absolutely. Hi guys, thank you
for watching this interview until the end. If you
liked it, please share it, leave a like and
hit the subscription button. The show is brought to
you by Enlights Learning and Development done differently. Check
their website at enlights.com and also please consider supporting
the show on Patreon or PayPal. I would also
like to give a huge thank you to my
main patrons and PayPal supporters, Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller,
Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf, Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew
Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis, Eric Elena, John Connors,
Philip Forst Connolly. Then Dmitri Robert Windegerru Inai Zu
Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor, Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea,
Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan
Labrarith, John Yardston, and Samuel Curric Hines, Mark Smith,
John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran, David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla
Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani,
Charlotte Blis Nico Barbaro, Adam Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka Madison,
Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal Adrian Yei Poltontin, John
Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall, Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry,
Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel Pancortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish,
Tim Duffy, Sony Smith, John Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William
Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno, Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris
Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David Williams, Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson,
Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore
atheists, Larry D. Lee Jr. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael
Bailey, then Spurber, Robert Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake
Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson,
Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda
Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann,
Per Crawley, Kate Van Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway,
BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov,
Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and
Jos Necht. A special thanks to my producers Iar
Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stink, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis
Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin,
John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden,
and to my executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian,
Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank you for all.